Triple DES

Triple DES is an encryption method which replaced the original Data encryption as hankers managed to solve the older encryption method with ease. Triple DES was recommended for the best encryption and was widely used around the world as it was safe.
Triple DES makes a use of 3 individual keys which are each 56 bits which means that ths total key length is 168 bits. Even though, Triple Des is slowly being phased out Triple DES is still a suitable able and trustable encryption solution which is still used within industries. 
2. RSA
RSA is a public-key encryption algorithm and the standard for encrypting data sent over the internet. 
Unlike Triple DES, RSA is considered an asymmetric algorithm due to its use of a pair of keys. You’ve got your public key, which is what we use to encrypt our message, and a private key to decrypt it. The result of RSA encryption is a huge batch of mumbo jumbo that takes attackers quite a bit of time and processing power to break.
3. Blowfish
Blowfish is yet another algorithm designed to replace DES. This splits messages into 64 bits and encrypts them individually.
Blowfish is known for both its speed and effectiveness as people claim that it has never been defeated. Meanwhile, users have taken full advantage of its free availability in the public domain.
Blowfish can be found in e-commerce platforms for securing payments to password management tools, where it used to protect passwords. It’s definitely one of the more flexible encryption methods available.
4. Twofish
Twofish is owned by the same produces as blowfish where Keys used in this algorithm may be up to 256 bits in length and as a symmetric technique, only one key is needed.

Twofish is regarded as one of the fastest of its kind, and ideal for use in both hardware and software environments. Like Blowfish, Twofish is freely available to anyone who wants to use it. As a result, you’ll find it bundled in encryption programs such as Photo Encrypt, GPG, and the popular open source software TrueCrypt.
